Hello everyone! Welcome to the second class of Digital Logic Design. So what did you see in this class? Yes, fundamental gates for our introductory lesson. So today we have universal gate. What do I say about universal gate? There are two types of universal gates which are XOR gate, sorry NOR gate and NAND gate. So today we will see the two gate inputs and outputs create And it's logical circuit that we have to start with. Now first I am going to start with the NOR gate. So nor gate, this name we have to keep the list of the word. 1. Or, namae rake tait gate involve. তর্মানে 9 gate হচে. Or gate এর inverse version. তর্মানে or plus not. এই দুইটা fundamental gates মিলে আমার 9 gate কা বিল্ড হচে. Okay? So, A term input and output ki roko moha be? Okay. So, e khad nao agir maato hai similarly du ita input jachche and acta output pe ruchche. First day, A as input and B at the input. Output data bearer how to say A plus B whole bar. Tare manikin R plus naught. R, I mean, can you add? Addition. A & B input has. We can add a plus b and not get under the result of this. Then we will have whole bar. So I will visualize it to be easier. So, I am doing input A and B. A and B are combined? 00011011. Now, first time we will do more. If you have not done this, the final number of 10 is equal to 0. So 0 plus 0 kye hobe? 0, 0 plus 1, 1. plus 0, 1. 1 plus 1, 1. Eta ghello amar or get complete. Aak hon eta ke ama ki korbu not koray shokto. That means eta yu inverse hoya chabye. Kale ekhane aachse amar 0 outputta hobe 1. Ekhane aachse 1 outputta hobe 0. So this is a column on the left side of the right side of the এরকম ছিলো? এরকম সুও এটার শুদ্যমাচ্র এ পাড তুকো আমি এব জাগার ইন্তুট করেদীবু. তাহলে কিন্ত আমি পেয়ে গ঳াং নার গেট। জেটা হচ্ছে A পলাস্ B হুলববর ওকে? সুও এটার গেলো আমার নার গেট। Now, I will see the last universal gate as well. Nand gate. So similar to nor gate, what is this? And I am going to show you the term. Here we have primary gate, fundamental gate, and also not gate. Not gate, plus not gate. So here we have to write the input. Now get this input. The output is A, the input is B. Output kii hoobye? Aamakhe first end koordte hoobye. End maani ki chilo? Multiplication. So, A into B. A poora me ki korbo? Not korbo. So, AB A roo por acta whole bar chole ashmo. Akon amin jodhiya war itarjo no similar table create kori. Okay. A B amal dueta input. So amal possible combination hukche 0 0, 1, 1 0 and 1 1. Akhon ami ki kochi vareste and kochi. And khanne holo? Multiplication. So 0 into 0, 0. into 1, 0. 1 into 0, 0. 1 into 1, 1. Ackhoorn, e takhe kii korbou? Not korbou. So 0 ta huye chabbe 1, e 0 ta huye chabbe 1, e 0 ta huye chabbe 1, and lastly e 1 ta huye chabbe ki? 0. So e ije kolum tha, e ta hujshya amal nand gate ay output. And lastly NAND gate dhekhtte NAND gate ehr jodhi aamra logical circuit aaakki ndhaale A B input jaat chhe and NAND gate koree aami not kore diho. Aholay aamii pereza abo NAND gate done. So aamra aamadhe duita universal gate chilo shita kiintto aamadhe explore koora hoye galo. So, this is the last two-team gate which is exclusive gate. This is the second one. The next one is the exclusive gate. exclusive gate here. Exclusive or, that means that XOR gate here input and output. Suppose A is the input and B is the right input. A, X, or B. So, I am A sign to give X, or B, plus exclusive R, plus A, So, A-TAR inputs and outputs to be recorded. So, A-TAR input and output will be recorded. As I said, A and B input will be able to try this formula step by step inputs. But now we have to get deep dive. So, the surface level idea is 0-0. সেটা হলো, A আন দের আমি হছ্য় পউসেবল কংবনেশন ইচ্ছে আগের মতো হি 0, 0 1, 1 0 & 1 1 তেকাছে? এখওর আমিংগি করবু আমি দেখবু আমার কন দুইটা রোতে সেম ইন્পुট আচে. That means first rowt য়দে আমি তাকাই আমি কি পাক পাক ছি 0 & 0. Same input. সো আমার আউট区টটা হবে 0. আবার last rowt য়দে তাকাই ইন્পुট আকি 1 & 1. দুইটা same input. So, এখানা আমি পাক ছি আউট匠া আজে 0. 0. Kee bolo chela? Same input equals to 0 and different input equals to 1. So itaay kinto eekhanne follow hoxche. Then second root ayamye judhi takae? Eekhanne kia achse? 0 and 1. So 0 & 1 is the output of 1. So 1 and 1 will be 1. So I have to do this formula with the lengthy process complete. সোরটকাটে এএকস্ওর আউটপूটতা দেখিনিয়েতে পালে. ওকে, এখহন, আমি জদী x ঔর লগিকল সারকিড দেখি, এটা দেখথে কিরকুম হয়? A একটা ইন区ুট, B একটা ইন区ুট, And this will be our output. Done! So x or the next thing we have to do is let's get the exclusive gate. সেটা কিনতা আমাদে পুছা ইজিএর হয়ে চপো. এখ্ষ্নাম্রা দেখবো, x 9 gate. x 9 gate मानेকে? x 9 gate होच্ছে, x or gate plus not gate. So I am going to do x or gate that will not get apply. So we can do x nor gate. So here is x nor input and output A and B. So what do we see? x or get. What does the output mean? x or get. We will not apply to this method. That means it will be done by all of our data. Now, we can generate output from the table. So, amad kiki possible combination habi input e? 0,0,0,1, 1,0,1, ok. So, xor geet e ki chilo. Amad same input e johno, manne same input value johno, amad output ashto 1 And different input value zho no output ashto 0 and different input value zho no output ashto 1. So eta mi xor jehi to amare eta so eta e khane apply kore di ching. So first sale Imi paabu 00 equals to 0. 01 equals to 1. 10 equals to 11 equals to 0. XOR BALANO AAMAAR SHESH. AAKUN ETAIKA AMI NOT KOREKHALEBHO. NOT MANE KI INVERSE TABB APPOSITTE KOREKHALEBHO. SO IKHADA AMI AACHTHA AMAARASTE 0. ETAI HURIO JOBE 1. ETAI 1, 0, 1, 0, 0 AND 1. SO LAST COLUMN JETAAMI PEELA SHEDEIKA AMAAR X NORGEETH. Now A & B X not gate air, I am logical circuit t e dhikthi x or gate a ghaak bho x or gate akar kore A bar into B bar plus AB. So A convention to not correct. So, A ghan the camera XOR the ke easily not korek into XNOR ta berikore filter paai. So, aaj kamera deklam total charter gates which are universal gates and N NOR and exclusive gate XOR and XNOR. Thank you.