Hello everyone! Welcome back to another video. In this video, we will see how the computer has a logical decision. How does user input it? How does that decision do not work? In last class, we will learn about variables. What kind of data type is there? What kind of variable is there? And in recent class we learned that the user has not been stored in any way. Now you can see this variable based on your decision. So let's start with our first question. If-else and elif give conditional statements very simple. We will go to deep topics. First, let's start. If rain user will bring umbrella. Okay? So, if not So, when the range is used, the umbrella does not have that umbrella does not have to use. So, how do you start with this? First, we will show the variable. Weather. So what about the user? The input of this user is an input. The user has to say today's weather. So, user input today's weather has been given. User at the weather that we have seen. Rain or sunny or something. So, if weather equal-equal I am going to say whether rain has been printed Print So, user-elect input the power of whether it has to be written first if block So you can see the range of this area, print the umbrella. If weather is unknown, but rain has a small letter to write it. else Also just come. You don't have to bring umbrella if it doesn't rain. You can just come. So this is what happens. User input has been used by the string We have to match the string. We will check if it is rain or does it equal rain? If yes, we can print bring. If there is rain, then we will use else block. The else block says print just come. So I will say if else, when we do weather is sunny, what happens? So, if I am going to tell you about the details of the else, I will give an elif conditional statement. What do we have? We can print... আরো পুল্ত পারে এগোলা কিছে না হয় রেণ জদি না হয় শনি না হয় জদি না হয় জদি না হয় সনি হয় চটি অকটি মোরেড ঵েদা থাখে তাকে তাহন কিকরবে পরিং করে এহন আম্য় আম্য় আ Okay, so now I will press the first variable. We can declare the variable. The user will check the input. The string will check the ifr. When it comes to rain, we can bring umbrella. If you don't have rain or sunny, then check the weather. If it's sunny, I will check the weather. If it's sunny, then check the weather. If it's sunny, then check the weather. So if there's rain or sunny, then we'll see how many words are printed. Print just come.