Hello everyone! Welcome back to another video. So last class we learned about variables. How do you declare the variable? What do you have to be able to declare the variable? How do you have data type of variable? Today I will discuss an interesting topic very important. Normally what does it mean? We gave the variable as well. The variable is 42. But real life that it has 42. That means we have the input from the user. So Python has built-in function which includes input. So I am going to write this function. Input function. It's called Python built-in function. So, it has an input function. So, the built-in function has an input function. So, we can use this example to show you. So I will show you the same thing. All of our variable name is called Name. We have to give it dynamically but we can use input function. So I will show you the input function that I have to give. Input function that I have to give. And then I can add a bracket and put a quotation mark. Here I am going to read this string and see what is your name? and the other thing I want to do is check this out. I have written an input function here. But if you use your name, when you see that message, you can write it and type it. The name variable will store the name. I am going to print function. I will write this name. I will show you the name variable. The name of the name is stored and it says hello to me. What do you want? Hello name. I will print this one. First, we can use the name. We can check the input name. We have a function. The user has an assistant. What is your name? The user will give names. If you have the name of Rafi, we store it on the name of Rafi. Then what happens next to me? Name is equal to... The reason why we do this is that the user will use it. Then, we have print function. We have Python built-in function which we did print. If you don't see what we do not print, then we can call our print function. Then we write string. So I will write the name of the name. The important thing that you can do is to say directly that this is not what I have given here. I am giving it as much as possible for the same person. The same thing is to give it as well. Okay so I am basic input function to how much work? So we will learn the same. 1.1 is an important thing for beginners. The beginning of this video will be very good. Let's give an example. I have erased the information from this video. Sometimes we don't have a bit of number to use. We put a bit of variable. First variable name 1. Now let's do it. In these days, there was no first variable or not. We gave a number of number. The name 1 is not the user. Now we can do input function. The user name is what is the first number? I will tell you what the first number is. The second number is Tom. So we have to give it a num2. Similarly, this one is same necessary. And I will write the second message. So what do we have to give? We have two numbers. What do we have to give? 10, 5. But then we can make some number. Some name is variable. Then we can add this number. So pretty simple right? What do we have to do? number 1 plus num 2. Nursery level of genius. I will add the number to this. But here we can see print function. We have some variables. But, it's an important thing to know about the beginner and developer. You can also learn more than other teachers. You will always find out the first time. So you don't have input. By default, always string has been used. So, when I say 10, this one will be string. But if you can add string or string, technically it's better, but mathematically it works. এ্টা আমে সৃন সৃন হিকরি এ্টা নামবু 10 হয় এোও আএ্টা নামের হয় 20 আমি তালে কি পাবো এ্টা এ্টা সৃন হয় হয় বার আম্ডা খিংতু এ্টা চাছি নাম্ড় এ্টা আম্ডা চাছি Actually integer number 10 and 20. Add 30. So this is the third thing that we have to do. We will declare the same. We can put an integer here and select next line. I am going to get the number of numbers. So this is what happens when I use the number of numbers. I have to say that the string has been used for this. The string has been used for our integer. So, if you have quotation on the right, then it will be there. Similarly, I will show you... num2 equal to integer of num2. How about that? If you have an integer, the second thing will change. So this is typecasting. I can forcefully typecast change. But it's not even though I'm just saying string doesn't exist so that I'll give an integer to the user. I am using the first member of jama h to write. I will use this int to do it. So error. It's possible because it's not possible. It's just integer value. So you can keep the information on this. And now we have to print it. And so we will see that there are two integers of each other. So this is the same thing that we have to do with the integer. We have to do some. We have to do some. In the class of 6, we have to look at our small tricks. We will see this thing as well. But it's 5 times. 8 times? If you have any questions about the output of the string format, I will click on the printer. In the printer, I will print the string. result is, and to the sum that I have done, print it with this one..20. If you understand 20, it will be 20. It will be 20. But we will do this again. We use Python 3. In Python 3, I have written the text from F string and it is very powerful. So let's see if string can be used to it. I will read the text. I will print the text. I will write double position. What can I do? The sum of the sum of the sum And so I have to write the f string as well. Sorry, here we can use bracket. So I have to write the f string as well. The sum of this string will be added. When I gave the calibrations, I had to give it a variable. Similarly, we have to add this string but then our variable will go. Because similarly there's a calibrations. We used that variable called sum. So let me trace this number. নাম 1 জুদেযামার হিটি, নাম 2 জুদ্যামার হলো 30, তাহলে, জিনিস্টা পরিংঠ হবে হলে এখানে এ ভাবে. I am going to show you the meaning of this class. I have not seen an input here. I will see that it has been a printable. In the next class we will use an arithmetic operation for the same time as a plus or minus. So today's class is very good.