[0:00-0:27] So guys, today's camera is going to be able to do the same thing as you can see, the full form is a maximum transmission unit unit So unit, we are talking about unit, what do you think?
[0:27-0:54] If you have a standard format, you can use the system as well. So, the maximum transmission unit is different because the system is different because the system is different. The connection system is different.
[0:54-1:20] The system is different in the way, different approach, algorithm follow, quality different, band width different. This is related to fixing MTU size, maximum transfer unit size. This is the system, the connection system.
[1:20-1:47] So, MTWare, first, I will try to explain and try. When you have a packet, a router is required to use, then you have an acknowledgement to the router. There is a three-way hand-try. One acknowledgement to the router is that you have to use a 2 byte, for example, you have to use a 5 byte, and you have to use a 2-day data.
[1:47-2:12] So, because inside the router has a buffer, you can basically keep the message and keep the package in depth. So, we have to use the router directly to in-depth. So, we have to use the router that you can use the router.
[2:12-2:38] So, I will explain the video about DF and MF for example, if we have maximum case, we will give DF to 0. But we need to fragment the packet throughout the transmission if necessary. So, for example, if DF is 0, we have a router and packet on the router.
[2:38-3:05] fragmenting is a good thing. For example, our packet is an uneven size for example which is not an exponent of 2. What do we do in that case? We do padding add. We have a lot of video about padding.
[3:05-3:32] multiple of 4, so we can add a padding to the header as multiple of 4. So we have three questions. We have to ask the size of the SPS, we can add a multiple of 3, so we can add a padding to the other exponent.
[3:32-3:41] but I have to take a map for the semester so I am guessing that this is the day
