[0:00-0:25] Hello everyone, welcome back to the class. So, in this video, we have talked about the fundamental aspect of Python. We have talked about Python and programming languages. So, in the last class, we have seen how Python has set the environment, like VS Code or PyCharm. So, we have learned how to configure the environment.
[0:25-0:52] You already have VS Code and PyCharm downloaded this and Python has set up the environment. So let's start. Honestly, you can say that the programming is a basic variable. So if you want to go to the data store, every other thing will be very easy to you. First question is what is the variable?
[0:52-1:19] I'm going to write what is variable. This is our main question. So think of like a box. So you have two boxes. You can keep a box in the box. What do you keep in the box? You can keep a book in the box. You can keep a box in the box. You can keep fruits in the box.
[1:19-1:45] So what do you need to keep? Apple, keep this type of type of type type of type type of type type type type
[1:45-2:12] Let me just remove it. So, Python is very easy to use. When you use any programming language, you can use C, Java, C-shark. You can use a number to use the variable. First, you can type int.
[2:12-2:37] If I have to ask this, I will ask the number of the variable to the number of the variable. But, the result is that Python has to do this type of data, so I will write it. What will happen? I will write it in the name of the number of the variable. Python will write it in the number of the variable.
[2:37-3:04] This is the integer value, because it is not our decimal point. This is the decimal point, but it is not visible in real life. So, see, this is the number, if you compare it with box example, it will compare it to each other. The number, the box, the number is the number, the number is the number, the number is the number. This value is the number.
[3:04-3:30] This is dynamic. This is the reason why Python is in the same way. If you have a number of 10, you can store the integer. So, when you are in the same way, you can write the number of 10. So, you can see this video. Now, you have to know the basic level of variable.
[3:30-3:58] So, we will see a data type, so we will explore further variables. We will remove this one. So, data type. Python has a data type. So, the first one is string.
[3:58-4:25] so we will select integer and then we will select integer and then we will select integer
[4:25-4:52] Let's see how we can do string. String is the same as the name of my name is Amuk my name is Amuk. So, what do we have to do string? I'm talking about this I'm talking about this.
[4:52-5:19] string is a word, which means the word is a word. I will write the word in English alphabet. I will write the word string, which means the mark will be the string. I will write the word double quotation, and I will write the word single quotation.
[5:19-5:44] This is a sting. This is a dynamic example. It's good. I'll take a separate dish. Fruit. Fruit.
[5:44-6:09] So, if apple is stored in the fruit, similarly, next data type is integer. Integer is a variable of RT, sub, base, use of data type. This integer is the number of our whole number. I am going to call it h. h is 10.
[6:09-6:36] h is different but h is not a number, h is a string, so h is a string, so h is a number of h to fix h. Then the number is float. Float is the number of people who have the number of people who have the number of
[6:36-7:01] is valid
[7:01-7:27] This is true. This means that this is valid. Because this is true. Python built-in method is a function. I will say that it is very interesting. But I can see this type. So, I will call this variable name.
[7:27-7:54] equal to, I will say, I am Sakib. So, first question, which is, you can check what this variable is type. Simply, what you can write, type of variable name. What variable name is, our name is, sorry, you have a problem, but variable name is,
[7:54-8:20] I'm going to name the variable, so this is confusing. I typed the name, and I see that there is a string. So, the variable is very important to name the name. Because you can code it. But when you are in code, you can see the naming of the name.
[8:20-8:46] variable name is J, but we will give this meaningful meaning to the same way as we can use the variable to use the same way. So let's start with the first rule that the variable name is J, variable name is J, maximum, small letter. So I will give you the time.
[8:46-9:12] name link is this, so we can use the variable that we use but our naming convention follow this standard rules which we can use name link name link is this, we can use small letter to show this, our variable name is this so this cross right way variable naming is the first rule
[9:12-9:39] So, we have to add integer value to the variable. So, we have to add one example. This is integer value, whole number. 1 and 5 is called name equal to roughly roughly. So, we have to add string. So, this is the same thing.
[9:39-10:05] Just follow it, just erase it. But you can tell what you say. Name1. This is our correct procedure. We have name variable here, and we have 1. Second correct rule is that we can use the name variable in which space.
[10:05-10:31] If you want my name, you can write my name. This is the name of my name. This is the name of my name. This is the name
[10:31-10:59] snake and camel. So, I will give you a small letter to the first letter. I will start with capital letter. You can see the camel's name, the place and the pit. Similarly, we have a very good number of variables.
[10:59-11:27] But Python community is very standard. This is follow up. The important thing is that Python is case sensitive. This is very important. The maximum number of developers is actively working.
[11:27-11:55] So, I think case sensitive, which is the age. 10. 10 is the age. So, we can store it in the same way. Now, we can use the age. Age is a, g, e. This is our small letter. So, I can write a, g, and then e. So, I can write a capital letter.
[11:55-12:21] So, let's see, the A, H and A, H are the same. Okay, both values are the same, but we use the same. So, in the next class, we did a wrap up and we learned how to use the variable. What variable? What variable was the variable. We kept the data stored.
[12:21-12:47] This is the integer. What is the data type? String, integer, boolean and float. So, floating here example is that the pi is called. It's called pi. It's called pi. It's called whole number. Boolean example is valid.
[12:47-13:01] above edge limit, if I am true false, I will check if I am checking. I am checking. Yes, true. And then I will use false. So, if I use this, I will start arithmetic operation.
