Hello everyone! Welcome to the first lecture of Digital Logic Design. So, software development should be required to understand our computer how to do this. So, as we have already seen the world in the past, when I am using signals and circuits, all kinds of analogs are used. Analog means that it's called continuous value. The signaler can be used as an analog example. Temperature, sound wave, even the same way. Analog here is what computer is used. Is it digital? No. Digital means discrete value. After digital signaler example you can take a lighter switch. What is the light switch? On or off. Do you have to fix any conditions? No. Similarly, what is the computer on? OnK Computer Thorena 1 and OffKeythorena 0. That means computer shudhu zeros and ones I will try to do this. And we call binary logic binary. A-Dharoner Logita maintain ttl. Jekhanen jaman dharo 5 volt. Tarmane huchhe it acta high voltage. এটার মনে হচ্ছে লজিক 1, and 0V. তার মনে হচ্ছে এটা আকতা গুড় ওল্টিচ, এটা হলোর লজিক 0. সো এক কউপ্য়ট্য়ট্য়ট্য়ট্য়া লজিক 1, আদলজিক 0 নিএ শভষ্মে কাঁচ করবে? So, this computer has been 0 and 1. How do you use the keyboard? The keyboard is not the same as the keyboard. The keyboard is high voltage and low voltage. The keyboard is 5V and ground voltage. So, I press 1. 1. So, computer combination create zeros and ones. That means that if we have low or high, we can use low. So, combinations create. So, the combination of these things will be made by physical device. And this is the logical device. So, now I will move logic gates to the topic. So, we have total logic gates to the topic. First one is AND gate. Second, OR gate. 3rd, Not-gate 4th, Nor-gate 5, NAND-gate 6, XOR-gate And lastly X NOR gate So our first gate is called fundamental gates And fourth and fifth one, this is North and Nand. This is Universal Gate. And last, this is exclusive gate. So this logic gate can be done by decision making. This connection between the wires and the wires will pass the signal or pass the signal to the power of the logic gates. So I have said that So I will tell you that the first gate is going to be able to make decisions for this class. Since there is physical gate, we have millions of gates to get into the processor. So it's called logic circuits. And how do input and output are important? So now let's move on to fundamental gates. Fundamental gates we have first seen as AND gate. So AND gate basically what is the key? And gate e jeta hoi. Suppose eta hoxhe aamar she physical device ta which is a gate. Jeta kya ame bohg chhi and gate. Eta ki korbhe? Eta ar moodh he dhu i tata input jaite paare. Suppose first input is A and second input is B. And A-DUITAR MUDHERE SOME CALCULATIONS KORAR PODHE ACTA OUTPUT BEER HOBHEY. CHETA KEYAMI DHORLLAAM X. So, DUITAR INPUT ACTA GATEAMO THRE JATCHE AND ACTA OUTPUT KINTO BEER HOCHA. So A input gula ke, I am connected to the charter model and output x on right side. So this will be said that computer should be done with 0 and 1. So A R B R 0 1 A combination dhyay kiki inputs possible? Atta hoiite paare 00, atta hoiite paare 01. Abar hoiite paare 10, abar hoiite paare 11. So, and get theta kore A and B are multiplication kore. Tare manne A input and B input ke multiply korle, am I x na me outputta pere jabo. So, amar first inputta kiya ache? 0, 0. Tahole 0 and 0 ke multiply ko lhe kii hai? 0. So, output as bho zero. Then, 0 and 1. 0 & 1 multiply korelle, hobhe 0. So, 8a output ho 0. Then 1 & 0. 1 into 0 korelle, Imao output poabho 0. So, 8a ro output haas bhe 0. And 1 into 1 korelle, lastly, Imao output haas bhe kye? 1. So eta output 1. So eta ndh eqe kya aamini significance ta ki a get it? Sheta huchhe suppose 0 hu lho aamari light on and 1 huchhe একচ্ছ হাওয় জিরো আমন ইডাখে লাখে লাখে তাহল গুপয় সাপোঝ এহটা অমার একটা বাল্ব একটা দে ঵ামার একটা ভাল্য় আমার একটা আশ্য় এক So 0 means light off. Meaning 2-1 of the output will be off. So 0. And when we have act on, we can use dim light to get out. So this will be 0 or 1. So if you have fully 1, then the output is 0. That means that when we have 0, we can get off of it. Similarly 1 into 0 is the same. I am output 0 is the same. And 1 into 1 is the same. So this is one kind of analogy. And gate is now in the logic side of the world. And gate is now in the input. The device will be visualized by the end of the world. A ববાবની বમགડે বાবગ বિરો বાবઓ বાবણ્ বાবણે বાবણે সেনামি দুয়টাল কিনতো আমি জিরও এজাউটপूট পেয়াজাভো. আখ়ণ আমি ন্স্ট পন্ডমিনটাল গেট্শে মুফ করিয়. আখ়ণ আমরা দেখুহবো ঔর গেট. আন গেটের মতোঈ এখানো সিমিলর পাটন ফালো হবে. আমার একটা পিজিকল ইপাইস হাগে শেটা ওড়ত দুইটা ইনপুট জাবে আমার অকটা আউটপूট পের হাভে. সাপস ইনপুটা হছে A আনাউটপूট হছে B স্য়া আউটপूট চিটা বের হাভে সেটা হাখয় আখ়ণ. I am jodhi similarly table draw kori A B as input R ho chhe A X output. Ta holi zeros and ones tiye ami A and B e kichho combination baana bo. Cheeta ho bhe 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1. একোন ওর গেটে জেটা হয় x ইক্঵লুস টু হবে a পলাস b তার মানে 0 পলাস 0 ইক্঵লুস টু হবে 0 0 পলাস 1 ইক্঵লুস টু আইবর কিংত হোয়ে জাবে 1 কোরণামার দুইটা ইনপूট্ের মোথে একোনো আক্তাতে 1 পাচে. Then 0 plus 1 equals to about 1. Then 1 plus 1 equals to have 1. So এর ওকোম ভাবে অদিশেনের মাথোমে ওরের গিটা কাচ করছে. Next, ওরের জুধি লউজিক সারকিটা আমি দাখাটে চায় Do it input A and B. Logic gate to take the point T. A plus B equals to X. So eta gala amar or gate. Aakon last fundamental gate sheta ho chhe not gate. Not-get. Not-get concept can be easier. Not-get what happens? Our physical device should be active input and active output. Suppose if we have A as an input, then we will get A as an output. A bar jenishty a bar huchhe alternate of A. Taur maanye kii? Taur maanye huchhe aamar input A and output A bar. Input jodhi 0 hoi. Tahuole output haubhe 1. And input jodhi 1 hoi. And output tata haubhe 0. এবাবে ওপুজিট জে সিগনল তো শেটা আমাকে নাড কেট দিরে. এনাড কেট কে বলে ইন্঵রটर. অকিয় এখুল এটার জুঝামি লজিকল সারকিটা দেখি এক্টা ইনপুড জাচ্ছে A not get দেখ্তে হবে এরগো. ওক্য়ে আক্টা ইনপুড জাচ্ছে not way, আএক্টা ইনপুড বে হোছে. So, A gula kiello amal itchuh fundamental gates.