Hello everyone, welcome back to our last class of this series Python fundamentals In the same class we have very interesting powerful one thing that looks like Computer has a powerful mechanism for each other Reputation is very expert Computer invention main motive was that manual level is needed How do you use repetitive work on computer? If you want to use it, then you can easily do it. And we will shine this programming language. So Python has two loops. While loops and for loops. We will learn the first while loop. They also go for fall loops. So, when we print it very well, yes, I can print it very small. Yes, if you want to print it, I can print it 100 times. If I read it 1000 or million times, this is not feasible for a human. So, I am going to use Python. First, I will call the initial value of the variable name. Name is 0. But then I start with while looping. Okay, so I will show you the same thing. I am giving this example to me. My name is 0. I don't have a small name. When my name is very small, I'll go back to the bottom of the top. When my name is very small and I'm getting tired from that. Okay sir? So currently, if you want to see true, I will call 0. And then 0 is small. Yes, obviously 0 is smaller than 10. So we can print this out. অমি ইএস্টা এখনো পরিংত কুদ্য় চাছী তো নামের ভেলু 0 এখনা আশ্টো পরিংথ হবে. এটা কিন্তো ইনফিনিট টাইমস আমার পরিংথ হতেই থাগে. সো আমার একটা কাজক্ত হলো ইটো ডোলো ইটরেশন্টা দিত হলে কি আমি নামের ভেলু সেন কি জবর তেড দেন চোট য় এস পুল্য় আগে পৃস ভার হাও তেন অমের খালো আগে পৃস ভালো শাতে ঵ান হান হান তেন তেন Because this means we can use while loop. Now, while loops, I will be able to use conditional statements. So if you want to learn more about the while loop, then we can use for loops. Okay, so let's get into now for loops. For loops, it was used in Python as well as easy and user-friendly. So this is the first step that we have to do the first step variable initialize, condition, blocker, increment. So, but if I have followed the script just easily. When you say print code 10 times, what do I say? For I in I can easily print 10 times the file for loop. How do you make this? Automatically incrementally, I have to change the language of range. I will say that this is a technical lecture in English. I will say that this is a technical lecture in English. So range value is 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 total 9 or 10 but I will count that total element is 10 years so range value is 10 years but total 10-bar iteration is complete So range-air value, the total of 0 is 10 times which is equivalent to a while loop running total of 10 times So now, let's see what we did in the last class. We learned a list. In the list you have to keep each element. So I don't want to list one. I will put some value in this class. 70, 80 50 60. This value can be found. And this means that we have to find our values. We learn the length. length, which we have to do with length, the function of built-in. So, let's see, I will read this easily as a list 1. We have some number here. I have to write the list of length. I will write the list of sum equal to 0. Initially, I am going to write the form loop for i n range of length length for 4. 0, 1, 2, 3. Total four times jins to iterate it. I want to say that sum equal to sum plus. Sumer value to update what we can do. So list 1 is the item value. I am going to check the sumer value first 0. First iteration, the sum of the value is 0. The number is 70. So, the sum of 0 equals 78. 70 plus 80. Total value is 150. 150 plus 50 add 200. 200 plus 60 add 260. That's the total sum. Now, this is very important that the syntax error was made by print. Print as well as sum, I will see every iteration of total sum. But if you have full sum value, I will find out more than far from all different forms. So we will get the list of all the submissions from this one. So we will finish our follow-up and our Python fundamentals series.